{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red27\green31\blue34;
\red121\green213\blue255;\red234\green255\blue255;\red254\green193\blue89;\red184\green230\blue123;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c14118\c16078\c18039;
\cssrgb\c53725\c86667\c100000;\cssrgb\c93333\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c79608\c41961;\cssrgb\c76471\c90980\c55294;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Bioinformatic Guide (DESeq2 for Recombination Junctions)
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\

\f0\b 1. Create metadata file. Note: only use alphanumeric characters and underscores in \'93treatment\'94. Slashes and parentheses may break script.
\f1\b0 \
\
#sample	treatment\
/path/to/ViReMa/Output/folder/	Virus1\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 /path/to/ViReMa/Output/folder/	Virus1\
/path/to/ViReMa/Output/folder/	Virus1\
/path/to/ViReMa/Output/folder/	Virus2\
/path/to/ViReMa/Output/folder/	Virus2\
/path/to/ViReMa/Output/folder/	Virus2\
\

\f0\b 2. Make count table. ViReMa Virus_Recombination_Results.txt must not have output tag. Output will generate in current working directory. Check to make sure you are running python3 by default. (\'93$python \'97version\'94)
\f1\b0 \
\
$python Make_Count_table.py /path/to/metadata.txt\
\

\f0\b 3. Run DESeq2 script. Requires DESeq2 installed.\
\

\f1\b0 $Rscript R.virema.txt Rec_Counts.txt [condition1] [condition2] [replicates]\
\

\f0\b 4.
\f1\b0  
\f0\b Filter junctions for forward junctions only. Data wrangle in Excel (text to columns using \'93_\'94 as a separator). Find and replace then select all blanks and delete. Label columns as start, stop, and \'93Gene\'94 for row numbers. Filter in R as normal. Output as .csv. Open in Excel, delete start and stop sites. Save as new file. Run this file through next step. Forward.csv filtered in R can be used to map junctions across genome.\
\
5. Create volcano plot from filtered junction .csv file using bioinfokit.\
\pard\tx1330\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
git clone https://github.com/reneshbedre/bioinfokit.git\
cd bioinfokit\
python setup.py install\
$python\
>>> from bioinfokit import visuz\
>>> visuz.volcano(table="testvolcano.csv", lfc="log2FC", pv="p-value")}